---
layout: page
title: "Usage"
category: doc
date: 2013-06-06 08:55:36
order: 1
---

The template follows a very simple convention of defining categories that correspond to sections in the navigation. Here are the default ones (they are listed in the `_config.yml`):

- `doc` - Documentation
- `ref` - Reference
- `tut` - Tutorial
- `dev` - Developers
- `post` - Posts

Since Jekyll is more geared towards blog posts, specifiying a date and setting up the front-matter can get tedious. Supplied in the `bin` directory is a simple Ruby scripy for creating a new _page_:

```bash
ruby bin/jekyll-page title category [filename] [--edit]
```

where `title` is the title of page, `category` is one of the categories defined in the `_config.yml`. By default the `filename` will be derived from the `title`, but you can specify an explicit filename (without the date) by passing the third agument. Finally the `--edit` (or just `-e`) will launch the editor defined by the `$EDITOR` environment variable.

#### Example

```bash
./bin/jekyll-page "My New Page" ref
```

Will produce a file `_posts/2013-06-05-my-new-page.md` with the [front-matter](http://jekyllrb.com/docs/frontmatter/) already defined:

```html
---
layout: page
title: "My New Page"
category: ref
date: 2013-06-05 12:00:00
---
```

### Navigation Order

Simply add an `order` attribute to the front-matter of the page and the navigation links will be sorted accordingly (within it's section).

```html
---
layout: page
title: "My New Page"
category: ref
date: 2013-06-05 12:00:00
order: 1
---
```

_Note: currently there is no way to arbitrarily order pages in Jekyll without the use of plugins. However, since deploying Jekyll sites to GitHub Pages is a common practice, we cannot rely on third-party plugins [since they are disabled](https://help.github.com/articles/pages-don-t-build-unable-to-run-jekyll#unsafe-plugins). This solution relies on JavaScript to sort the navigation after it has been rendered, so if JavaScript is disabled on the browser, the client is out of luck._

### Symlinks

For convenience, a new directory will be created called `_pages` which contains symlinks to the posts without the data prefix, e.g. `2013-04-13-foo.md` &rarr; `foo.md`. This makes it a tad easier when opening files to edit.

### Disqus

You can enable disqus comments on any page.  Configure your disqus shortname in the main ```_config.yaml```, you get the shortname during the signup process at Disqus:

```html
disqus_shortname: your_disqus
```

You can now enable it on a per-page basis in the YAML pre-amble of the page:

```html
---
layout: page
title: "My New Page"
category: ref
date: 2013-06-05 12:00:00
disqus: 1
---
```

### Google Analytics

You can use Google Analytics to track visits to your site, once you configured your site at Google you'll get a site ID that looks something like ```UA-99999999-9```, to activate it on all your pages configure the ```_config.yaml```:

```html
google_analytics_id: 'UA-99999999-9'
```

If you do not wish this feature enabled you must set it to an empty string:

```html
google_analytics_id: ''
```
